# Properties

<!-- YOUTUBE: AabqZodJ2xM -->

Structs and classes (collectively: "types") can have their own variables and constants, and these are called properties. These let you attach values to your types to represent them uniquely, but because types can also have methods you can have them behave according to their own data.

Let's take a look at an example now:

    struct Person {
        var clothes: String
        var shoes: String

        func describe() {
            print("I like wearing \(clothes) with \(shoes)")
        }
    }

    let taylor = Person(clothes: "T-shirts", shoes: "sneakers")
    let other = Person(clothes: "short skirts", shoes: "high heels")
    taylor.describe()
    other.describe()

As you can see, when you use a property inside a method it will automatically use the value that belongs to the same object.


## Property observers

Swift lets you add code to be run when a property is about to be changed or has been changed. This is frequently a good way to have a user interface update when a value changes, for example.

There are two kinds of property observer: `willSet` and `didSet`, and they are called before or after a property is changed. In `willSet` Swift provides your code with a special value called `newValue` that contains what the new property value is going to be, and in `didSet` you are given `oldValue` to represent the previous value.

Let's attach two property observers to the `clothes` property of a `Person` struct:

    struct Person {
        var clothes: String {
            willSet {
                updateUI(msg: "I'm changing from \(clothes) to \(newValue)")
            }

            didSet {
                updateUI(msg: "I just changed from \(oldValue) to \(clothes)")
            }
        }
    }

    func updateUI(msg: String) {
        print(msg)
    }

    var taylor = Person(clothes: "T-shirts")
    taylor.clothes = "short skirts"

That will print out the messages "I'm changing from T-shirts to short skirts" and "I just changed from T-shirts to short skirts."


## Computed properties

It's possible to make properties that are actually code behind the scenes. We already used the `uppercased()` method of strings, for example, but there’s also a property called `capitalized` that gets calculated as needed, rather than every string always storing a capitalized version of itself.

To make a computed property, place an open brace after your property then use either `get` or `set` to make an action happen at the appropriate time. For example, if we wanted to add a `ageInDogYears` property that automatically returned a person's age multiplied by seven, we'd do this:

    struct Person {
        var age: Int

        var ageInDogYears: Int {
            get {
                return age * 7
            }
        }
    }

    var fan = Person(age: 25)
    print(fan.ageInDogYears)

Computed properties are increasingly common in Apple's code, but less common in user code.

**Note:** If you intend to use them only for *reading* data you can just remove the `get` part entirely, like this:

    var ageInDogYears: Int {
        return age * 7
    }
