# Protocols

Protocols are effectively contracts in Swift: they define a set of methods and properties that a type must implement if it says it conforms to the protocol. This contract gives us the flexibility to use different types to solve the same problem – we don’t get whether a `ThingA` or a `ThingB` is being used, as long as they both conform to the `Thing` protocol.

As an example, an `Employee` protocol might look like this:

    protocol Employee {
        var name: String { get set }
        var jobTitle: String { get set }
        func doWork()
    }

There are three important things in there. 

First, both the properties have `{ get set }` after them. This means that conforming types must make them both gettable (readable) and settable (writeable), which in turn means if a type says it is compatible with the `Employee` protocol it must make those two properties variables rather than constants.

Second, `doWork()` has no code inside it. Protocols are contracts defining how something ought to be able to behave, and don’t provide *implementations* of those behaviors.

Third, that protocol isn’t a *type*, which means we can’t create instances of it. But we *can* create classes and structs that conform to it, like this:

    struct Executive: Employee {
        var name = "Steve Jobs"
        var jobTitle = "CEO"
        
        func doWork() {
            print("I'm strategizing!")
        }
    }
    
    struct Manager: Employee {
        var name = "Maurice Moss"
        var jobTitle = "Head of IT"
        
        func doWork() {
            print("I'm turning it off and on again.")
        }
    }

Now that we have a protocol and two types that conform to it, we can try using it:

    let staff: [Employee] = [Executive(), Manager()]
    
    for person in staff {
        person.doWork()
    }
    
Because both types conform to `Employee` – they implement the properties and methods of that protocol – we can create an employee array and use the objects inside that array without know what their actual type is.
