# Custom subclasses of NSObject

You already created your first custom class when you created the collection view cell. But this time we're going to do something very simple: we're going to create a class to hold some data for our app. So far you've seen how we can create arrays of strings by using `[String]`, but what if we want to hold an array of *people*?

Well, the solution is to create a custom class. Create a new file and choose Cocoa Touch Class. Click Next and name the class “Person”, type “NSObject” for "Subclass of", then click Next and Create to create the file.

`NSObject` is what's called a *universal base class* for all Cocoa Touch classes. That means all UIKit classes ultimately come from `NSObject`, including all of UIKit. You don't have to inherit from `NSObject` in Swift, but you did in Objective-C and in fact there are some behaviors you can only have if you do inherit from it. More on that in project 12, but for now just make sure you inherit from `NSObject`.

We're going to add two properties to our class: a name and a photo for every person. So, add this inside the `Person` definition:

    var name: String
    var image: String

When you do that, you'll see errors: "Class 'Person' has no initializers." This is a term I've skipped over so far, but now is a good time to introduce it: an initializer method is something that creates instances of a class. You've been using these all along: the `contentsOfFile` method for `String` is an initializer, as is `UIAlertController(title:message:preferredStyle:)`.

Swift is telling you that you aren't satisfying one of its core rules: objects of type `String` can't be empty. Remember, `String!` and `String?` can both be `nil`, but plain old `String` can't – it must have a value. Without an initializer, it means the object will be created and these two variables won't have values, so you're breaking the rules.

To fix this problem, we need to create an `init()` method that accepts two parameters, one for the name and one for the image. We'll then save that to the object so that both variables have a value, and Swift is happy.

Doing this gives you the chance to learn something else: another required usage of the `self` keyword. Here's the code:

    init(name: String, image: String) {
        self.name = name
        self.image = image
    }

As you can see, the method takes two parameters: `name` and `image`. These are perfectly valid parameter names, but also happen to be the same names used by our class. So if we were to write something like this…

    name = name

…then it would be confusing. Are you assigning the parameter to itself? Are we assigning the class's property to the parameter? To solve this problem, you use `self.` to clarify which is which, so `self.image = image` can only mean one thing: assign the parameter to the class's property.

Our custom class is done; it's just a dumb data store for now. If you're the curious type, you might wonder why I used a class here rather than a struct. This question is even more pressing once you know that structs have an automatic initializer method made for them that looks exactly like ours. Well, the answer is: you'll have to wait and see. All will become clear in project 12!

With that custom class done, we can start to make our project much more useful: every time a picture is imported, we can create a `Person` object for it and add it to an array to be shown in the collection view.

So, go back to ViewController.swift, and add this declaration for a new array:

    var people = [Person]()

Every time we add a new person, we need to create a new `Person` object with their details. This is as easy as modifying our initial image picker success method so that it creates a `Person` object, adds it to our `people` array, then reloads the collection view. Put this code before the call to `dismiss()`:

    let person = Person(name: "Unknown", image: imageName)
    people.append(person)
    collectionView?.reloadData()

That stores the image name in the `Person` object and gives them a default name of "Unknown", before reloading the collection view.

Can you spot the problem? If not, that's OK, but you should be able to spot it if you run the program.

The problem is that although we've added the new person to our array and reloaded the collection view, we aren't actually using the `people` array with the collection view – we just return 10 for the number of items and create an empty collection view cell for each one! Let's fix that…
