# Setting up

<!-- YOUTUBE: JNg1kLsttLY -->

I don't want to put you off, but this is by far the longest project in the series. It's not the most *complicated*, but it's long, coming in just short of 500 lines in total. That said, I hope it'll be worth it, because the end result is great: we're going to make a Fruit Ninja-style game, where slicing penguins is good and slicing bombs is bad. I think I must unconsciously have something against penguins…

Anyway, in this project you're going to meet `SKShapeNode` and `AVAudioPlayer`, you're going to create `SKAction` groups, you're going to create shapes with `UIBezierPath`, and more. So, it's the usual recipe: make something cool, and learn at the same time.

This project is hard because you need to write a lot of code before you can start to see results, which I personally find frustrating. I much prefer it when I can write a few lines, see the result, write a few lines more, see the result again, and so on. That isn't possible here, so I suggest you make some coffee before you begin.

Still here? OK!

Create a new SpriteKit project in Xcode, name it Project23, then do the usual cleaning job to create a completely empty SpriteKit project: remove all the code from `didMove(to:)` and `touchesBegan()`, change the anchor point and size of GameScene.sks, and so on.

You should also download the files for this project from GitHub (<https://github.com/twostraws/HackingWithSwift>), then copy its Content folder into your Xcode project.

Please force the app to run only on landscape iPads before continuing.

**Reminder:** Don’t forget to use a real device for this project, or, if you must, the lowest-spec iPad in the simulator.
