# Creating a Swift extension

Extensions let us modify Swift’s data types to add new functionality, and so on in a really clean way – our new code is indistinguishable from existing code.

We're going to start with an extremely simple extension so you can get a basic grip on how things work before moving on to more complicated examples.

Let's start with an extension that adds one to an integer. Yes, I realize this is essentially just `+= 1`, but we're starting simple. Put this in your playground:

    import UIKit

    var myInt = 0

This code will be evaluated immediately, so in the right column you'll see 0. This tells you that the `myInt` variable has the value 0. Now add this to the playground, just beneath the `import UIKit` statement:

    extension Int {
        func plusOne() -> Int {
            return self + 1
        }
    }

There are two things in there that are new:

1. `extension Int` tells Swift that we want to add functionality to its `Int` struct. We could have used `String`, `Array`, `UIButton` or whatever instead, but `Int` is a nice easy one to start.
2. `self + 1` is new because so far we've only used `self` to refer to a view controller or SpriteKit scene. Well, `self` in this case refers to the number that was used to call this method.

How the extension works will become clear once you use it. Put this line just below the current `myInt` line:

    myInt.plusOne()

In the right column you'll now see 0 for the first line and 1 for the second, so calling `plusOne()` has returned a number one higher than the number we called it on. Note: unlike regular Swift files, playground code is executed *linearly* – i.e., top to bottom. That means you need to put the extension code above where you use it.

The extension has been added to all integers, so you can even call it like this:

    5.plusOne()

When you do that, you'll see 6 in the output column.

Our little extension adds 1 to its input number and returns it to the caller, but *doesn't* modify the original value. Try typing this:

    var myInt = 10
    myInt.plusOne()
    myInt

Using a variable by itself tells the playground just to output its value, so in the output column you'll see 10, then 11, then 10 again. This is the original value, the return from the `plusOne()` method, and the original, unchanged value.

To push things a little further, let's modify the `plusOne()` method so that it doesn't return anything, instead modifying the instance itself – i.e., the input integer.

To make that happen, you might think we need to do something like this:

    extension Int {
        func plusOne() {
            self += 1
        }
    }

That removes the return value because we aren't returning anything now, and it uses the `+=` operator to add one to `self`. But this won't work, and in fact Xcode will give you a wonderfully indecipherable error message: "Cannot invoke += with an argument of type Int."

That error will undoubtedly make you think, "surely += and Ints go together like George Lucas and endless Star Wars remakes," but what Xcode really means is that it Swift doesn't let you modify `self` inside an extension by default. The reason is that we could call `plusOne()` using `5.plusOne()`, and clearly you can't modify the number 5 to mean something else.

So, Swift forces you to declare the method `mutating`, meaning that it will change its input. Change your extension to this:

    extension Int {
        mutating func plusOne() {
            self += 1
        }
    }

…and now the error message will go away. Once you have declared a method as being `mutating`, Swift knows it will change values so it won't let you use it with constants. For example:

    var myInt = 10
    myInt.plusOne()

    let otherInt = 10
    otherInt.plusOne()

The first integer will be modified correctly, but the second will fail because Swift won't let you modify constants.
