# Wrap up

<!-- YOUTUBE: 71Ibkm2eIgU -->

This was a deliberately short technique project taking an existing app and making it better. I hope you didn't get too bored, and hope even more that some of the new material sunk in because we covered `UIBarButtonItem` and `UIActivityViewController`.

As you’ve seen, it really is trivial to add social media to your apps, and it can make a huge difference to helping spread the word about your work once your apps are on the App Store. All being well, this project has also shown you how easy it is to go back to previous projects and improve them with only a little extra effort.


## Review what you learned

Anyone can sit through a tutorial, but it takes actual work to remember what was taught. It’s my job to make sure you take as much from these tutorials as possible, so I’ve prepared a short review to help you check your learning.

[Click here to review what you learned in project 3](/review/hws/project-3-social-media).


## Challenge

One of the best ways to learn is to write your own code as often as possible, so here are three ways you can apply your knowledge to make sure you fully understand what’s going on:

1. Try adding the image name to the list of items that are shared. The `activityItems` parameter is an array, so you can add strings and other things freely. Note: Facebook won’t let you share text, but most other share options will.
2. Go back to project 1 and add a bar button item to the main view controller that recommends the app to other people.
3. Go back to project 2 and add a bar button item that shows their score when tapped.
