# Auto Layout anchors

You’ve seen how to create Auto Layout constraints both in Interface Builder and using Visual Format Language, but there’s one more option open to you and it’s often the best choice. 

Every `UIView` has a set of anchors that define its layouts rules. The most important ones are `widthAnchor`, `heightAnchor`, `topAnchor`, `bottomAnchor`, `leftAnchor`, `rightAnchor`, `leadingAnchor`, `trailingAnchor`, `centerXAnchor`, and `centerYAnchor`.

Most of those should be self-explanatory, but it’s worth clarifying the difference between `leftAnchor`, `rightAnchor`, `leadingAnchor`, and `trailingAnchor`. For me, left and leading are the same, and right and trailing are the same too. This is because my devices are set to use the English language, which is written and read left to right. However, for right-to-left languages such as Hebrew and Arabic, leading and trailing flip around so that leading is equal to right, and trailing is equal to left.

In practice, this means using `leadingAnchor` and `trailingAnchor` if you want your user interface to flip around for right to left languages, and `leftAnchor` and `rightAnchor` for things that should look the same no matter what environment.

The best bit about working with anchors is that they can be created relative to other anchors. That is you can say “this label’s width anchor is equal to the width of its container,” or “this button’s top anchor is equal to the bottom anchor or this other button.”

To demonstrate anchors, comment out your existing Auto Layout VFL code and replace it with this:

    for label in [label1, label2, label3, label4, label5] {
        label.widthAnchor.constraint(equalTo: view.widthAnchor).isActive = true
        label.heightAnchor.constraint(equalToConstant: 88).isActive = true
    }

That loops over each of the five labels, setting them to have the same width as our main view, and to have a height of exactly 88 points.

We haven’t set top anchors, though, so the layout won’t look correct just yet. What we want is for the top anchor for each label to be equal to the bottom anchor of the previous label in the loop. Of course, the first time the loop goes around there *is* no previous label, so we can model that using optionals:

    var previous: UILabel?

The first time the loop goes around that will be nil, but then we’ll set it to the current item in the loop so the *next* label can refer to it. If `previous` is not nil, we’ll set a `topAnchor` constraint.

Replace your existing Auto Layout anchors with this:

    var previous: UILabel?

    for label in [label1, label2, label3, label4, label5] {
        label.widthAnchor.constraint(equalTo: view.widthAnchor).isActive = true
        label.heightAnchor.constraint(equalToConstant: 88).isActive = true

        if let previous = previous {
            // we have a previous label – create a height constraint
            label.topAnchor.constraint(equalTo: previous.bottomAnchor, constant: 10).isActive = true
        }

        // set the previous label to be the current one, for the next loop iteration
        previous = label
    }

That third anchor combines a different anchor with a constant value to get spacing between the views – these things are really flexible.

Run the app now and you’ll see all the labels space themselves out neatly. I hope you’ll agree that anchors make Auto Layout code really simple to read and write!
