# Easy GCD using performSelector(inBackground:)

<!-- YOUTUBE: T5_QS7Y7TuI -->

There’s another way of using GCD, and it’s worth covering because it’s a great deal easier in some specific circumstances. It’s called `performSelector()`, and it has two interesting variants: `performSelector(inBackground:)` and `performSelector(onMainThread:)`.

Both of them work the same way: you pass it the name of a method to run, and `inBackground` will run it on a background thread, and `onMainThread` will run it on a foreground thread. You don’t have to care about how it’s organized; GCD takes care of the whole thing for you. If you intend to run a whole method on either a background thread or the main thread, these two are easiest.

For project 7, we can use this method to clear up the confusion with our `showError()` method. For example, we could refactor the fetching code into a `fetchJSON()` method that can then run in the background like this:

    override func viewDidLoad() {
        super.viewDidLoad()

        performSelector(inBackground: #selector(fetchJSON), with: nil)
    }
    
    @objc func fetchJSON() {
        let urlString: String

        if navigationController?.tabBarItem.tag == 0 {
            urlString = "https://api.whitehouse.gov/v1/petitions.json?limit=100"
        } else {
            urlString = "https://api.whitehouse.gov/v1/petitions.json?signatureCountFloor=10000&limit=100"
        }

        if let url = URL(string: urlString) {
            if let data = try? Data(contentsOf: url) {
                parse(json: data)
                return
            }
        }
    
        performSelector(onMainThread: #selector(showError), with: nil, waitUntilDone: false)
    }

    func parse(json: Data) {
        let decoder = JSONDecoder()

        if let jsonPetitions = try? decoder.decode(Petitions.self, from: json) {
            petitions = jsonPetitions.results
            tableView.performSelector(onMainThread: #selector(UITableView.reloadData), with: nil, waitUntilDone: false)
        }
    }
    
    @objc func showError() {
        let ac = UIAlertController(title: "Loading error", message: "There was a problem loading the feed; please check your connection and try again.", preferredStyle: .alert)
        ac.addAction(UIAlertAction(title: "OK", style: .default))
        present(ac, animated: true)
    }

As you can see, it makes your code easier because you don’t need to worry about closure capturing, so we’ll come back to this again in the future. Note: because `performSelector()` uses `#selector`, we need to mark both `fetchJSON()` and `showError()` with the `@objc` attribute.

Because the code is now much simpler, we can add an `else` block to our JSON decoding, like this:

    if let jsonPetitions = try? decoder.decode(Petitions.self, from: json) {
        petitions = jsonPetitions.results
        tableView.performSelector(onMainThread: #selector(UITableView.reloadData), with: nil, waitUntilDone: false)
    } else {
        performSelector(onMainThread: #selector(showError), with: nil, waitUntilDone: false)
    }

This refactored code also makes the `return` call inside `fetchJSON()` work as intended: the `showError()` method is never called when things go well, because the whole method is exited. What you choose depends on your project’s needs, but I think it’s much easier to understand the program flow using this final approach.
